- Hey everyone, it's Natasha
of NatashasKitchen.com, and today I'm gonna show
you how to make the easiest chicken fried rice. It's a great way to use up leftovers, it's perfect for meal planning. And it takes less than 30 minutes to make. It's just some quick prep
before we fire up the stove, so let's get started. Crack four large eggs into a small bowl and thoroughly beat them
together with a fork. Set that aside, then finely
chop about a quarter cup of green onion. And I do like to chop a little extra to use as garnish for later. You'll need one pound of
boneless, skinless chicken thighs. Trim off the excess fat, then dice into small, bite size pieces. I love chicken thighs because
they add a lot of flavor but you can use chicken
breast or chicken tenders if that's what you have on hand. Season the chicken with
half a teaspoon of salt and a quarter teaspoon of black pepper. Now that our ingredients
are prepped and ready to go, let's fire up the stove. Place a large, preferably non-stick pan or a wok over medium high heat and add one tablespoon of oil. Add your seasoned chicken
and cook for about four to five minutes, stirring occasionally or just until the chicken
is fully cooked through. Transfer the cooked
chicken to a separate bowl. Reduce to medium heat,
drizzle in a little more oil, if needed, then add your scrambled eggs. The eggs cook super fast, so
scramble with your spatula for about a minute or just
until the eggs are no longer wet, then transfer them to the
same bowl with the chicken. Wipe the skillet clean
with a damp paper towel then drizzle in another tablespoon of oil. Now add five cups of
cooked and cooled rice. Spread the rice in an even
layer over the bottom of the pan and let that sit
undisturbed without stirring for one to two minutes. Give the rice a stir,
then saute for another one to two minutes undisturbed. The rice should sizzle. Drizzle the top with two
tablespoons of soy sauce or add it to taste. Then add one and a half
teaspoons of sesame oil. Next, stir in 12 ounces of
your thawed peas and carrots. Add the chicken and scrambled
eggs back to the pan and stir everything to combine, breaking up the eggs into smaller pieces. And finally, add your chopped green onion. Continue stirring and cooking just until everything is heated through. You can also add more soy sauce and sesame oil to taste. Oh ho, ho, ho, ho, that's
what I'm talking about. It is lunch time. Ugh, and I'm so hungry for this. Yum! Love to serve it while it's hot and fresh. But this also reheats really well, so it's perfect for meal planning. All right, we're gonna
jump right into this and do the taste test. Oh, yum, yum, yum. And this fried rice is loaded. And then I like to top it
off with a little bit more fresh green onion. Just for a little bit of color and flavor. Okay, here we go. (upbeat electronic music) Mm, mm, mm, mm, mm. Mm. I can't believe something
this easy can taste so good. It is perfectly seasoned, and again, if you wanna use a low sodium soy sauce, just add it to taste. Ugh, I love that this is a meal in itself! It's packed with protein
with the eggs and the chicken and also it's loaded with sweet veggies. The sweet peas and tender
carrots, I love that. And most of these ingredients
you probably already have in your fridge, like, winning! (laughs) And it's also really affordable to make. Perfect way to use up leftovers. And it's really good for meal prep. So if you wanna use these
little to-go containers, it reheats really well. You can pack it for work
lunch, school lunch, any kind of lunch. I love having leftovers
of chicken friend rice. Hey if you guys have any meal prep ideas, let me know in the comments below. And, I hope this becomes
a new favorite for you. Hey, if you guys are looking for some more genius meal prep ideas, check out some of our
favorites and reader favorites right over there and right down there. And before you go, I came up with a free email course and if you guys wanna
get your hands on that, it's all my best tips on
becoming a better cook. I'll leave a link for
that in the description! And we'll see you in our next video.